whoami/README.md, before:

<br/>
<p align="center">
  <h1><code>whoami</code></h1>
  <br/>
</p>


## Table Of Contents

* [About the Project](#about-the-project)
* [Built With](#built-with)
* [Project Set Up and Installation](#project-set-up-and-installation)
* [Project Structure](#project-structure)
* [Design](#design)
* [Functionality](#functionality)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Tests](#tests)
* [Hosting](#hosting)
* [Resources](#resources)

## About The Project

This is a utility CGI to which we can point users who are attempting to diagnose access
issues. It prints a list of relevant `ENV` values and cookies for submission to HathiTrust
technical staff. A Jira ticket can be appended to the URL and `whoami` will automatically
submit an internal comment on that ticket.


## Built With

- `CGI`
- `mdp-lib`
- `IP::Geolocation::MMDB`


## Project Set Up and Installation

Follow the instructions in the `babel` README file. There are no additional setup steps
required for `whoami`.


## Project Structure
```markdown
babel
└── whoami
    ├── README.md
    └── cgi
        └── whoami // Everything happens here
```

## Design

Logos and UI elements should come from `/htapps/babel/firebird-common`.

## Functionality

- If the user is logged in (`REMOTE_USER` set)"
  - Prints a bulleted list of credentials from `ENV` and GeoIP
  - Prints a bulleted list of `HTTP_COOKIE` values
  - If a Jira ticket is added to the URL (e.g., `cgi/whoami/DEV-XXX`
    - Submits am internal comment to the ticket with the aforementioned credentials
- Otherwise (`REMOTE_USER` unset)
  - Prompts the user to click a link to log in.

## Usage
The `whoami` app is intended only to gather information to be used by HathiTrust technical
staff in resolving access issues.

## Tests
There are currently no automated tests.

When testing functionality for a logged-in user, it may be necessary to add a line like
`SetEnv REMOTE_USER user@default.invalid` in `apache/000-default.conf`.

## Hosting
`whoami` runs under Docker and in the `babel` production environment.

## Resources

- If actual Jira calls are to be made, make sure the credentials listed in the `jira_request` routine
have been configured.

Commit message:

Mention use of switch_auth.sh when testing

whoami/README.md, after:

<br/>
<p align="center">
  <h1><code>whoami</code></h1>
  <br/>
</p>


## Table Of Contents

* [About the Project](#about-the-project)
* [Built With](#built-with)
* [Project Set Up and Installation](#project-set-up-and-installation)
* [Project Structure](#project-structure)
* [Design](#design)
* [Functionality](#functionality)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Tests](#tests)
* [Hosting](#hosting)
* [Resources](#resources)

## About The Project

This is a utility CGI to which we can point users who are attempting to diagnose access
issues. It prints a list of relevant `ENV` values and cookies for submission to HathiTrust
technical staff. A Jira ticket can be appended to the URL and `whoami` will automatically
submit an internal comment on that ticket.


## Built With

- `CGI`
- `mdp-lib`
- `IP::Geolocation::MMDB`


## Project Set Up and Installation

Follow the instructions in the `babel` README file. There are no additional setup steps
required for `whoami`.

These are the two whoami URLs that can be visited once apache is up and running:
```
http://localhost:8080/cgi/whoami
http://localhost:8080/cgi/whoami/JIRA_TICKET
```


## Project Structure
```markdown
babel
└── whoami
    ├── README.md
    └── cgi
        └── whoami // Everything happens here
```

## Design

Logos and UI elements should come from `/htapps/babel/firebird-common`.

## Functionality

- If the user is logged in (`REMOTE_USER` set)"
  - Prints a bulleted list of credentials from `ENV` and GeoIP
  - Prints a bulleted list of `HTTP_COOKIE` values
  - If a Jira ticket is added to the URL (e.g., `cgi/whoami/GS-XXX`
    - Submits am internal comment to the ticket with the aforementioned credentials
- Otherwise (`REMOTE_USER` unset)
  - Prompts the user to click a link to log in.

## Usage
The `whoami` app is intended only to gather information to be used by HathiTrust technical
staff in resolving access issues.

## Tests
There are currently no automated tests.

To test functionality for a logged-in user, run `./switch_auth.sh` (from the top level
of the repository) to simulate different user types. You can check the output of `whoami`
against the values in `apache/auth/active_auth.conf`.

## Hosting
`whoami` runs under Docker and in the `babel` production environment.

## Resources

- If actual Jira calls are to be made, make sure the credentials listed in the `jira_request` routine
have been configured.
